README.md, before:

# ce100-app

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/emfoundation/ce100-app.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/emfoundation/ce100-app)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/emfoundation/ce100-app/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/emfoundation/ce100-app)
[![dependencies Status](https://david-dm.org/emfoundation/ce100-app/status.svg)](https://david-dm.org/emfoundation/ce100-app)
[![devDependencies Status](https://david-dm.org/emfoundation/ce100-app/dev-status.svg)](https://david-dm.org/emfoundation/ce100-app?type=dev)


A networking, knowledge sharing and collaboration platform for the Circular Economy 100 network, an Ellen MacArthur Foundation programme.

## _Why_?

To connect the members of the CE100!

## _Who_?

see: https://www.ellenmacarthurfoundation.org/ce100

## _What_?

A micro-social network focussed on connecting people in the Circular Economy.


## _How?_ (Implementation Notes)

This project uses the following technologies:

+ Node.js - https://nodejs.org/
+ Hapi.js - if you are new to Hapi or need a refresher, see: https://github.com/dwyl/learn-hapi
+ Redis - if you haven't used Redis before see: https://github.com/dwyl/learn-redis

### Running the Project Locally

Clone the GitHub Repository

```
git clone https://github.com/emfoundation/ce100-app.git
```
Ensure you have the required `.env` file, then run:

```sh
npm i
npm run generate-tags
npm start
```

### Required Environment Variables

If you are unsure what an Environment Variable is, see: https://github.com/dwyl/learn-environment-variables

create a file in the root of the project called `.env`

```sh
JWT_SECRET=
TEMPLATE_DIRECTORY=./server/email-templates
SENDER_EMAIL_ADDRESS=
AWS_REGION=eu-west-1
AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=
AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=
```
_remember_ to add the appropriate _values_ to these keys.

> Note: if you are a team member ask Marie for the `.env` Google Doc!

### Running the Tests

To run the tests locally you will need to have a running Redis instance.
Then simply open a terminal window and type and run the following command:

```js
npm test
```

#### Executing a _Single_ Test

If you are attempting to _debug_ or _extend_ a single test,
you can _run_ a single test _file_ by executing it as node script. e.g:

```
node test/auth/auth.test.js
```

#### Adding/Updating Tags (Admin)

Please refer to the [wiki](https://github.com/emfoundation/ce100-app/wiki/Add-Update-Tags) for information on how to do this.

#### HTTP/HTTPS (Admin)

Once the domain's HTTP/TCP protocol has been decided on, it might make sense to change ```isSecure: false``` on [line5 of server/auth.js](https://github.com/emfoundation/ce100-app/blob/master/server/auth.js#L5)

## Questions?

> If you have any questions, please raise an issue: https://github.com/emfoundation/ce100-app/issues

## Endpoints

Commit message:

WIP #354 - README.md: adds command to populate postgres

README.md, after:

# ce100-app

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/emfoundation/ce100-app.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/emfoundation/ce100-app)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/emfoundation/ce100-app/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/emfoundation/ce100-app)
[![dependencies Status](https://david-dm.org/emfoundation/ce100-app/status.svg)](https://david-dm.org/emfoundation/ce100-app)
[![devDependencies Status](https://david-dm.org/emfoundation/ce100-app/dev-status.svg)](https://david-dm.org/emfoundation/ce100-app?type=dev)


A networking, knowledge sharing and collaboration platform for the Circular Economy 100 network, an Ellen MacArthur Foundation programme.

## _Why_?

To connect the members of the CE100!

## _Who_?

see: https://www.ellenmacarthurfoundation.org/ce100

## _What_?

A micro-social network focussed on connecting people in the Circular Economy.


## _How?_ (Implementation Notes)

This project uses the following technologies:

+ Node.js - https://nodejs.org/
+ Hapi.js - if you are new to Hapi or need a refresher, see: https://github.com/dwyl/learn-hapi
+ Redis - if you haven't used Redis before see: https://github.com/dwyl/learn-redis

### Running the Project Locally

Clone the GitHub Repository

```
git clone https://github.com/emfoundation/ce100-app.git
```
Ensure you have the required `.env` file, then run:

```sh
npm i
npm run generate-tags
npm start
```

Then, to populate the database with some mockdata, run:
```sh
npm run mockData
```

### Required Environment Variables

If you are unsure what an Environment Variable is, see: https://github.com/dwyl/learn-environment-variables

create a file in the root of the project called `.env`

```sh
JWT_SECRET=
TEMPLATE_DIRECTORY=./server/email-templates
SENDER_EMAIL_ADDRESS=
AWS_REGION=eu-west-1
AWS_ACCESS_KEY_ID=
AWS_SECRET_ACCESS_KEY=
```
_remember_ to add the appropriate _values_ to these keys.

> Note: if you are a team member ask Marie for the `.env` Google Doc!

### Running the Tests

To run the tests locally you will need to have a running Redis instance.
Then simply open a terminal window and type and run the following command:

```js
npm test
```

#### Executing a _Single_ Test

If you are attempting to _debug_ or _extend_ a single test,
you can _run_ a single test _file_ by executing it as node script. e.g:

```
node test/auth/auth.test.js
```

#### Adding/Updating Tags (Admin)

Please refer to the [wiki](https://github.com/emfoundation/ce100-app/wiki/Add-Update-Tags) for information on how to do this.

#### HTTP/HTTPS (Admin)

Once the domain's HTTP/TCP protocol has been decided on, it might make sense to change ```isSecure: false``` on [line5 of server/auth.js](https://github.com/emfoundation/ce100-app/blob/master/server/auth.js#L5)

## Questions?

> If you have any questions, please raise an issue: https://github.com/emfoundation/ce100-app/issues

## Endpoints
